init docs for `HTMLElement.spellcheck` (#31441)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmlelement/spellcheck/index.md

---
title: "HTMLElement: spellcheck property"
short-title: spellcheck
slug: Web/API/HTMLElement/spellcheck
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLElement.spellcheck
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}

> The **`spellcheck`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLElement")}} interface represents a boolean value that controls the [spell-checking](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) hint. It can be presented on all HTML elements, though it doesn't have an effect on all of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`spellcheck`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLElement")}} interface represents a boolean value that controls the [spell-checking](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) hint. It is available on all HTML elements, though it doesn't affect all of them.
```

It reflects the value of the [`spellcheck`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) HTML global attribute.

## Value

> A boolean value that is `true` if spell and grammar of the text content in the element may be be checked, `false` otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A boolean value that is `true` if the spelling and grammar of the text content in the element may be checked, `false` otherwise.
```

## Examples

The following example shows how to control the [spell-checking](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) hint via script:

> ```js

Reviewer: Let's make this a live example.

const spellcheckElement = document.querySelector(".spellcheck-element");
const noSpellcheckElement = document.querySelector(".no-spellcheck-element");

> // the spell and grammar of text content in the element may be checked

Reviewer: Spell = magic, Spelling is the word you want

Let's start a comment with a capital letter.
```suggestion
// The spelling and grammar of text content in the element may be checked
```

> if (!spellcheckElement.spellcheck) {

Reviewer: The test is useless

  spellcheckElement.spellcheck = true;
}

> // the spell and grammar of text content in the element may not be checked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// The spelling and grammar of text content in the element may not be checked
```

---
title: "HTMLElement: spellcheck property"
short-title: spellcheck
slug: Web/API/HTMLElement/spellcheck
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLElement.spellcheck
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}

The **`spellcheck`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLElement")}} interface represents a boolean value that controls the [spell-checking](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) hint. It is available on all HTML elements, though it doesn't affect all of them.

It reflects the value of the [`spellcheck`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) HTML global attribute.

## Value

A boolean value that is `true` if the spelling and grammar of the text content in the element may be checked, `false` otherwise.

## Examples

The following example shows how to control the [spell-checking](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) hint via script:

```html

> <div>
>   <span id="spellcheck-label">The spelling and grammar may be checked:</span>
> </div>
> <div>
>   <span id="spellcheck-element" contenteditable="true" spellcheck="true"
>     >testt</span
>   >
> </div>
> <div>
>   <span
>     >Change the checkbox to enable or disable spelling and grammar check</span
>   >
> </div>
> <div>
>   <input id="spellcheck-controller" type="checkbox" checked />
> </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div>
  <span id="sc-label">The spelling and grammar may be checked: </span>
  <span id="sc-element" contenteditable="true" spellcheck="true">test</span>
</div>
<input id="spellcheck-controller" type="checkbox" checked />Enable spelling and grammar check
```

```

```js

> const label = document.getElementById("spellcheck-label");
> const element = document.getElementById("spellcheck-element");
> const controller = document.getElementById("spellcheck-controller");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const label = document.getElementById("sc-label");
const element = document.getElementById("sc-element");
const controller = document.getElementById("sc-controller");
```

> controller.addEventListener("change", (e) => {
>   if (controller.checked) {
>     element.spellcheck = true;
>     label.innerText = "The spelling and grammar may be checked:";
>   } else {
>     element.spellcheck = false;
>     label.innerText = "The spelling and grammar will not be checked:";
>   }
> });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
controller.addEventListener("change", (e) => {
  if (controller.checked) {
    element.spellcheck = true;
    label.innerText = "The spelling and grammar may be checked: ";
  } else {
    element.spellcheck = false;
    label.innerText = "The spelling and grammar may not be checked: ";
  }
});
```

page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLElement.spellcheck
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}

The **`spellcheck`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLElement")}} interface represents a boolean value that controls the [spell-checking](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) hint. It is available on all HTML elements, though it doesn't affect all of them.

It reflects the value of the [`spellcheck`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) HTML global attribute.

## Value

A boolean value that is `true` if the spelling and grammar of the text content in the element may be checked, `false` otherwise.

## Examples

The following example shows how to control the [spell-checking](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) hint via script:

```html
<div>
  <span id="spellcheck-label">The spelling and grammar may be checked:</span>
</div>
<div>
  <span
    id="spellcheck-element"
    contenteditable="true"
    spellcheck="true"
    autofocus
    >testt</span
  >
</div>
<div>
  <span
    >Change the checkbox to enable or disable spelling and grammar check</span
  >
</div>
<div>
  <input id="spellcheck-controller" type="checkbox" checked />
</div>

> <div>
>   <span
>     >Note that you must enable the browser setting of spelling and grammar
>     check</span
>   >
> </div>

Author: ```suggestion
```

```

```js
const label = document.getElementById("spellcheck-label");
const element = document.getElementById("spellcheck-element");
const controller = document.getElementById("spellcheck-controller");

controller.addEventListener("change", (e) => {
  if (controller.checked) {
    element.spellcheck = true;
    label.innerText = "The spelling and grammar may be checked:";
  } else {
    element.spellcheck = false;
    label.innerText = "The spelling and grammar will not be checked:";
  }

> });

Author: ```suggestion
});

element.focus()
```

```

> {{EmbedLiveSample('Examples', 600, 200)}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{EmbedLiveSample('Examples', 600, 200)}}

Note that you must enable the browser setting to check spelling and grammar.
```

It reflects the value of the [`spellcheck`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) HTML global attribute.

## Value

A boolean value that is `true` if the spelling and grammar of the text content in the element may be checked, `false` otherwise.

## Examples

The following example shows how to control the [spell-checking](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/spellcheck) hint via script:

```html
<div>
  <span id="spellcheck-label">The spelling and grammar may be checked:</span>
</div>
<div>
  <span
    id="spellcheck-element"
    contenteditable="true"
    spellcheck="true"
    autofocus
    >testt</span
  >
</div>
<div>
  <span
    >Change the checkbox to enable or disable spelling and grammar check</span
  >
</div>
<div>
  <input id="spellcheck-controller" type="checkbox" checked />
</div>
<div>
  <span
    >Note that you must enable the browser setting of spelling and grammar
    check</span
  >
</div>
```

```js
const label = document.getElementById("spellcheck-label");
const element = document.getElementById("spellcheck-element");
const controller = document.getElementById("spellcheck-controller");

> controller.addEventListener("change", (e) => {
>   if (controller.checked) {
>     element.spellcheck = true;
>     label.innerText = "The spelling and grammar may be checked:";
>   } else {
>     element.spellcheck = false;
>     label.innerText = "The spelling and grammar will not be checked:";
>   }
> });
> 
> element.focus()

Author: ```suggestion
controller.addEventListener("change", (e) => {
  if (controller.checked) {
    element.spellcheck = true;
    label.innerText = "The spelling and grammar may be checked:";
  } else {
    element.spellcheck = false;
    label.innerText = "The spelling and grammar will not be checked:";
  }
});
```
